# Checklist: How easy is the project to take over?
* Do you know who developed what?

* Do you know the languages / frameworks / databases / technologies were used? Do you know them?
* Is there a repository?
* Can you deploy?
* Are there any tests?
* Do you know what the program does / should do?
* Is it possible to destinguish well defined parts of the program
* Is it possible to describe in one sentence what the program does?
* Are pople who developed the first version on place and willing to help?
* Does the development and production branch have the same functionalities?
* How many platforms the program covers?
* What is the scor in pylint?
* How many LOC you have?
* Is code divided into modules, classes, methods and functions?
* Does program have any users? Do you know them? Can you talk to them on a regular basis?
* Are you going to use program yourself?
* Is there a documentation?
* Is there a specification?
* Which percent of functions have docstrings?
* Can you see any examples of codegolf?
* What is the depth of the most nested loop / if statemnt?
* How understendable are variable names?
* * are all files related to the project stored in one place?
* can you install the program by yourself?
* do you have a chance to meet the former developer regularly?
* are there other people who know the code still actively involved?
* give the outgoing programmer an incentive to contribute (publications, open-source)
* do you have authority to change everything?
* is there a backlog / ticket system / bugtracker? How old are the last entries?
* how many of the main parameters of the project will change the moment you take over? (team, project size, goals, features, platform)

# How the rx project started:
1. Access to repository.
2. What is the rxncon data model?
3. Where is the main page template?
4. Where is the production code:
e.g.
looking at the Quick – where is the code responsible for input parsing, creating output for each button?
where reactions and contingencies are interpreted?
5. How large is the project (how to distinguish your code and default code generated by web2py, have you deleted any default code)?
6. Is it possible to split the production code and web2py (what is your opinion – I think it would facilitate testing, but may be too much work)?
7. Which parts of the code would you advise to start working with to get to know the code. Are there any independent fragments?
8. How did you tested your code?
9. Do you measure the traffic on the web?
