# What do you mean by 'done'?

Have you encountered the following situation in a programming project? The project is divided into tasks, the tasks are placed in an electronic tracking system or as cards on a task board. After some time, programmers declare they are finished: Some come up with a basic solution very quickly and prefer to take care of special cases and cleanup work later. Others invest a lot of time into building a solid, maintainable structure. The former carries the risk that problems get swept under the rug and technical debt is accumulating, the latter that tasks linger in a half-done state forever. Moreover, your team may disagree to what extent a task needs to be implemented to count as “done”. How can you as a project manager know what your team means by “done”?

Historically excessively detailed specifications were used to describe what a program should do (and often still are). But in many programming projects this approach is too clumsy. User Stories, cards describing features in a few words, provide a short objective description, but they do not represent the engineering details. Methodologies like SCRUM admit that “done” in programming can be interpreted in many ways. They claim that an important prerequisite for productivity is that “done” means the same thing to all people involved. This has resulted in a pragmatic solution: the “definition of done”.

The “definition of done” is a convention the programming team creates. It is a list of simple, criteria a task must pass in order to count as 'done'. The definition could include “the code is in the repository”, “the code has been released on the server”, “automatic tests have been written” etc. All criteria must be objective and easy to check. The “definition of done” represents a quality standard and reflects the engineering practices used by the team.

Creating and agreeing on a “definition of done” may require intensive discussion among team members, but it is worth it: Once established, the team knows what everyone of them means when they say something is “done”, a quality standard is established, and the experience helps the team to grow together.
